This page describes the schema for the mocks used in 2-point
validation. The format will evolve, that is why it initially looks
contrived: we want to make codes that are capable of working
everything they need from the data itself – this prevents both pain
and possible mistakes from manual intervention. We use HDF5 format. A
useful tool to inspect these is

https://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/hdfview/

The main changes from 0.1 is that the consesus is that simplicity is
more important than disk-space. Hence there will really be multiple
catalogs for each individual test we want to do.

The main datasets has the following subdatasets:

## meta

Contains meta information from the run stored as dataset attributes (dataset is otherwise empty).

* colore_key=value are input parameters to CoLoRe run

* version is the current version of the mock

* mkcat_git_version is the git hash of mkcat

* realspace - are redshifts realspace of redshift space

* timestamp contains the time when the mock was created for bookkeeping

## dNdz

mean number density of objects as a function of redshift. Two columns: z and dNdz. The latter is in #/sq deg/dz


## bz

bias of objects as a function of redshift. Two columns: z and bz.


## photoz

Type of photozs used. Information stored as dataset attributes.

The field "type" contains type and at the moment the only valid types are "base" (no PZ error) and

### "gauss" (called "fixed_sigma" in v0.1).

The actual sigma value is stored in the attribute "sigma" as in sigma(z)/(1+z)="sigma"

In the future, "type" will contain more complicated types.

## window

Window function of the survey. The field "type" contains type and at
the moment the only valid types are "base" (W=1 everywhere) and

### "decbcut" (i.e declination and b cut").

The cuts are stored in "dec_min", "dec_max" and "b_cut" fields. Only
galaxies with declinations between dec_min and dec_max and b>b_cut are
kept.

Parameter b is the galactic longitude and we used icrs->galactic
conversion facility of astropy to determine it.

In the future, this dataset will store more healpix window functions,
etc.  

## objects

Actual positions of objects. The following fields are supported,
although you should not rely on any of them being stored, except "ra"
and "dec" 

* ra - right ascencion in icrs coordinates

* dec - declination in icrs coordinats

* z - redshift including photo_z error (assuming PZ type == "gauss")

