This page describes the schema for the mocks used in 2-point
validation. The format will evolve, that is why it initially looks
contrived: we want to make codes that are capable of working
everything they need from the data itself – this prevents both pain
and possible mistakes from manual intervention. We use HDF5 format. A
useful tool to inspect these is

https://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/hdfview/

The main changes from 0.1 is that the consesus is that simplicity is
more important than disk-space. Hence there will really be multiple
catalogs for each individual test we want to do.

The main datasets has the following subdatasets:

## meta

Contains meta information from the run stored as dataset attributes (dataset is otherwise empty).

* colore_key=value are input parameters to CoLoRe run

* version is the current version of the mock

* mkcat_git_version is the git hash of mkcat

* realspace - are redshifts realspace of redshift space

* timestamp contains the time when the mock was created for bookkeeping

## dNdz

mean number density of objects as a function of redshift. Two columns: z and dNdz. The latter is in #/sq deg/dz


## bz

bias of objects as a function of redshift. Two columns: z and bz.


## photoz

Type of photozs used. Information stored as dataset attributes.

The field "type" contains type and at the moment the following types are valid:

### "none"

The "z" columno on objects contains the true redshift

### "gauss" (called "fixed_sigma" in v0.1).

The actual sigma value is stored in the attribute "sigma_pz" and is calculate
from true_z as in sigma(z)="sigma"*(1+z_t)


### "doublegauss"

This is a more complicated toy pz algorithm where PZ is composed of two Gaussians, one
at fixed Z and the other at floating pz.

The following attributes are stroed:
sigma  - the width of the main component as in sigma(z)=(1+z_true)*"sigma"
         is also stored in "sigma_pz" of the array
sigmacat - the width of the non-floating component
zcat - redshift of the other component
Acat - size of the "catastrophic" componet

The mean and sigma of floating component is stored in "zmg", "sigma_pz"
The total pdf is thus

P(z) = Acat G(zcat,sigmacat) + (1-Acat) * G(zmg,sigma_pz)

## window

Window function of the survey. The field "type" contains type and at
the moment the only valid types are

### "base" (W=1 everywhere)

### "decbcut" (i.e declination and b cut").

The cuts are stored in "dec_min", "dec_max" and "b_cut" fields. Only
galaxies with declinations between dec_min and dec_max and b>b_cut are
kept.

Parameter b is the galactic longitude and we used icrs->galactic
conversion facility of astropy to determine it.

In the future, this dataset will store more healpix window functions,
etc.  

### "healpix"

Actual healpix map is stored in ring-ordered array. Nside can be derived from dataset size.
Attribute info contains what actually went into the making of this window

## objects

Actual positions of objects. The following fields are supported,
although you should not rely on any of them being stored, except "ra"
and "dec" 

* ra - right ascencion in icrs coordinates

* dec - declination in icrs coordinats

* z_true - true redshift of an object, if stored. Note that interloper
           objects such as stars can appear as z=0

* z - redshift including photo_z error (assuming PZ type == "none" or "gauss")
* zmg - central redshift of main gaussian component (assuming PZ type = "doublegauss")


